Don't treat this as lore verbatim, just some idea primer let's say.


[[bit of history]]
Once upon a time there were empires across the stars. There were quite a few and the threshold upon which a society advanced to "solar" level was the discovery of sunsteel. Sunsteel was a very universal and robust material, with some unique properties that allowed it to be used as source of advancement. Much like the people we call Ancient had an all-spanning term for Romans, Greeks, Egyptians, Parthians - being the same "Ancient" moniker - even though in reality those societies were not only very different but most often at contest - the people of today call them the Solarites, using Solar tech. Currently encountered Solar Republics almost never have anything common with the Solarites of old, only mimicking and resurrecting tech they Managed to scavenge and restart and make a part of their lives. The original Solarites most probably got themselves wiped out by the mechanoids.
[tl;dr there was never a "Solar Society", there were many and they fucked each other royally]
trot, sunlight, aegis and WideAWake were commonly used by these factions.
Gallop, Crewmates, Pax and Adreamoline are very rarely used, because they rely on scavenging the Tenebrite crystals from the crazy shadow people who can kill with a punch.

In opposition to the non-existent then or now Solarites, the Kwazari are much the same people and uniform society seen in the past. At some point, one of the Solarite dominions managed to acquire the knowledge of Quasar Alloy, the Plasteel to Sunsteel's Steel. Their secret was kept hidden jealously for centuries, and whoever tried to grasp it, met their invincible trade fleet, as there was nothing that could oppose them.
The Kwazaris formed a quasi-corporate structure, focused on improving the lives of their citizens; due to their isolation however, their structures, culture and styles started to stagnate somehow and remain unchanged and even are revered to some point as unchangaeble. Kwazari outposts are often centuries old, focused on production, mining and providing security for their citizens. They rarely speak with outsiders. They are very afraid of seeing Solarites again - potentially discovering Quasar Alloy - and will gladly buy all the Solar, Quasar or Tenebral tech you might find. Kwazari were at war with Sophiamunda for a bit, before they used their influence and resources to - whoop whoop - shatter that empire from within.
[tl;dr Brotherhood of Steel vibes]
Canter, Diet Sunlight, Castra and Sleepquitin are commonly used by this faction.
Gallop, Crewmates, Pax and Adreamoline are seldom used, because they rely on scavenging the Tenebrite crystals from the crazy shadow people.

That doesn't end the story as there was a part of the Kwazari who resisted the stagnation. Here and there, outposts went dark, stopped reporting to the network. Ships sent to investigate never returned and the colonies were deemed lost. And some of them were - wiped out by mechanoids, consumed by the anomaly, burned by the vengeful Sophiamundans or just selfdestructed by digging to deep, too greedily. 
Not all of them however, as some, independently, discovered the awesome power of Tenebrite. Calling themselves the Umbrans, Tenebrals and other variations, they've let the dark matter crystals into their technological lives, gaining power, immortality and true freedom. 
The Tenebrite-powered humans were unstoppable, could replicate whatever they wanted and thus focused on discovering what there is left to discover in the universe. However, whenever two unknown to each other parties of Umbrans met each other, it always ended in slaughter of one of the groups, often with surrounding countryside turned to ashes.
Countless planets were ravaged by Tenebral wars, because the all-powerful humans feared only one thing - another all-powerful human taking it all away.
Gallop, Crewmates, Pax and Adreamoline are not used by these peoples - they don't need them.

[[tactics and technology]]
[Mechs]
The higher tier mechs that we see are the originals, and the other mechs in the rimworlds are the dumbed-down versions of them, or ones that had to patch themselves up with inferior materials for centuries or even millenia.

[Weaponry]
Solarites use high-caliber rounds just like we use normal ammunition. Due to the properties of sunsteel, ultra-advanced bionics and unbelievable armours, this is possible to do without breaking their faces.
Due to their utilitarian nature, Kwazari think that the only thing better than big guns are even bigger guns, so their approach is to use even greater calibers than Solarites. It works on mechanoids, it works on humans, it works on starships. Has them surviving for millenia.
Tenebrals and Umbrals tend to use hyper-advanced versions of modern charge weaponry to deal with the rabble, however their true strength and proficiency lies in hand-to-hand combat. You will most often find them resorting to just tearing the enemies apart with their bionic arms.

[Armour]
Solarites and Kwazari utilize whatever armour they can get their hands on, depending on the function they require. They replicate concepts of known brands with the usage of their superior materials ((that's why you get Rimsenal-clad Solarites)). 
The tenebral boobs use only their own original armours as their power resides in the enhanced bodies.

[Bionics]
Solarite societies enhance themselves with Solar bionics much like any other society, to enhance their abilities, to replace broken parts. 
It's a bit different with the Kwazari, while the normal citizens will rarely have artificial parts - prefering the advanced methods of healing instead - the various important functions in their society will be fully clad in Quasar implants. That's why you might be able to easily
deck a Kwazari in hand-to-hand combat, until you meet a Guardsman, who will rip your head off without breaking a sweat.
And then there are the Umbrals. Umbrals are the least numerous of these three groups, however they make up for it in enhancements. Every Umbral is fully bionically enhanced, begging the question of the line between a human and a machine. Their arms, organs and brains are enhanced with a variety
of tenebrite-clad enhancements, installed with the help of femtomachines.

[Xenotypes]
Through science and peculiar properties of the new materials and especially neutronium, ancient humans were able to extend their lifespans. However due to overwhelming reliance on technology, their bodies improved in some ways, but deteriorated in others.
That caused the humans to live longer, but be more and more tied to the technology and bionics sustaining them. [ increased need for sleep, they're a bit slower, their immunity sucks -- that's why they have to take the super drugs]
[[Solarite human - longer timespan, lesser needs, aptitude for violence and science, worse physical traits]] <- this goes for original Solarites, not the faux ones now.
Kwazari human - even longer timespans, lesser needs, aptitude for social and science, w
orse physical traits
Umbral human - basically immortal, lesser needs, aptitude for science, negative aptitude for violence (they don't need to be good at killing), worse physical traits

[Technology]
(Solarite Tech)
Utilizes Spacer-level components coupled with Sunsteel. Clothes mostly woven from Hyperweave and Sunweave. Typical Solarite soldier wields a Solarite Pistol, Solarite Rifle, Solarite Shotgun or a Solarite Sniper Rifle. For close quarters combat they rely on their enhanced, bionic arms.
Designated guardsmen wield Solarite Spears - high-tech, light and deadly melee weapons.
Solari infrastructure is built mostly of Sunsteel. Sunsteel is a very peculiar material, only one known to man which can isolate Neutronium. Neither quasar alloy nor tenebrite have this property.
([Solarite Production])
Solarite Production is focused in two areas - Solari Forge and Solari Fabricator. 
The Solari Forge is a high-powered smelter that cures plasteel into sunsteel. To mantain the proper power distribution, one must fill the Solari Forge with gold and uranium. [[recipe: 10 sunsteel = 1 gold, 1 uranium, 10 plasteel,]]. 
The Solari Forge is also the only source of Neutronium, as only Sunsteel can contain it. [[recipe: 1 gold, 1 uranium, 5 plasteel -> 25 Neutronium]]

The Solari Fabricator is a specially designed, semi-automated machine allowing to shape Sunsteel into various appliances, such as armour, weapons or Sunweave. [[Solari Forge is the Tier 1 bench basically]]


([Solarite Power])
The Solari Reactors are specially designed nuclear reactors that utilize replaceable fuel rods [[50 Sunsteel + 10 uranium = 5 fuel rods]] to produce tremendous amounts of power safely.

([Solarite Joy])
Solarite societies are the only ones who kept on improving the common joy-givers, such as poker tables.

([Solarite Bionics])
Solarite Bionics are manufactured by heavily automated Solari Medical Fabricator.

([Solarite Medicine])
The Solarite Medicine is more advanced than its Glitterworld counterpart. Self-sterilizing properties of sunsteel, more advanced production methods makes Solarite Medicine the superior choice.

([Solarite Drugs])



([Solarite Hydroponics])
Solarite societies use the Solari Hydroponics Ponds to grow and nourish their plantlife.

([Solarite Factories])
Some of the Solarite colonies focus on mass production via automated factories that tirelessly weave neutronium into whatever sample you've given them. Terms and conditions apply.

([Solarite Research])
Solarite Research requires the computing power of a Solarite Self-Computing Bamboozle. It requires Plasteel and Spacer Components to build. The device will speed up any research.

(Quasarite Tech)

(Tenebral Tech)
